'2¹1⁷‘

 

an'ron, raptatus bigis.

Fm. 42.

BOOK 11 281

story is told in I le'acl XVI, The partici-
ple here is middle and governs a direct
accusative, as in Ι. 228.

276. iaculatus ignis: after 71 urliny fires.
In the Iliad (XXII. 370) the Greeks look-
With admiration on Hector’s corpse. How-
ever, they stab him as they pass by and
remark, ‘⁴ Truly Hector is easier to handle
than when he burnt the ships with con-
suming fire.'' puppibus: dative, = in
puppis.

277. concretos: matted.

278. gerens: with. The construction is
continued froin qualis erat, 274. circum
muros : zze. when dragged about the walls.
plurima: attracted, as often in prose,
from the antecedent into the relative
clause.

279. ultro: modifying compellare. flens
ipse : i.e. 1 myself weeping as well as he.

280. expromere: the verb implies effort.

281. lux: the metaphoris common in all
languages. '

283. exspectate: vocative by attraction.
ut: exclamatory, how J i.e. how yladly!

286. quae causa . . . foedavit voltus:
the pathos of the passage is increased by
the fact that Aeneas, in his dreani, remem-
bers Hector only in his unmarred beauty,
not as he was in death. Hence these ques-
tions, which imply ignorance of Hector’s
fate.

287. ille nihil: sc. respondit. Cf. note
01142. moratur: heeds.

289. fuge: note how direct is this ap-
peal. Hector disregards the previous
questions

